Delta Air Lines Flight 4819 was landing at Pearson airport from Minneapolis just after 2 p.m. ET when the crash occurred. The plane was a Bombardier Canadair Regional Jet (CRJ) with 76 seats operated by Endeavor Air, a regional airline subsidiary of Delta Air Lines based in Minneapolis. 

A video posted in the private Facebook group, Toronto Pearson Aviation, shows the crash. 

Shortly after the plane touches down on the runway, the right wing seems to collapse.

A burst of flames and smoke appear as the plane skids on the tarmac. The plane then flips onto its back, with black smoke billowing from it. It comes to a stop several metres from where it initially touched down.

WATCH | Video of crash posted on Facebook: 

Social media video shows Delta plane land in Toronto, catch fire and roll

17 hours ago
Duration0:35
A video posted in a private Facebook group called Toronto Pearson Aviation shows the Delta plane coming in for a landing on Monday, sliding, and then rolling as flames and smoke billow.
Who was on board? 
All 76 passengers and four crew members managed to escape after the plane turned upside down, according to Deborah Flint, president and CEO of the Greater Toronto Airports Authority (GTAA). Of those on board, 22 were Canadian. 

How many people were injured? 
The number of injured has fluctuated in reports from officials since the crash happened. In a post on X Tuesday morning, Delta Air Lines said 21 people were taken to hospital and 19 of those have since been released.

Ornge, Ontario's air ambulance service, said a child was taken to Toronto's Hospital for Sick Children with critical injuries, while a man in his 60s and a woman in her 40s were also taken to Toronto hospitals with critical injuries.

Toronto's Hospital for Sick Children said on Tuesday that the patient it received from the crash was discharged on Monday night.

Investigators retrieve cockpit voice, flight data recorders from crashed Delta plane
18 injured after plane crashes, flips at Toronto's Pearson airport
Speaking at a news conference Tuesday, Flint said none of the injuries were life-threatening. Airport officials could not confirm whether the child is one of two passengers who remains in hospital. 

Injuries on scene mainly stemmed from back strains, head injuries, anxiety and headaches, as well as nausea and vomiting caused by exposure to fuel, said Cory Tkatch, a commander of operations for Peel Regional Paramedic Services, during the news conference.

How did everyone on board survive? 
The survival of everyone on board may have resulted from the durability of the plane's seats and the way the crash unfolded, said David McNair, a former Transportation Safety Board of Canada investigator.

"The rolling impact, although uncomfortable and unpleasant, is not as bad as having a direct impact somewhere," he said in an interview on CBC Radio's Metro Morning on Tuesday. 

WATCH | Seats may have helped save lives, former transportation safety board investigator says: 

How plane seats may have saved passengers in Toronto plane crash

18 hours ago
Duration6:26
A plane from Minneapolis crashed when landing at Toronto Pearson International Airport Monday afternoon. David McNair, a former Transportation Safety Board of Canada investigator, analyzes how unlikely it is that only three people were critically injured in the incident.
Their survival is "a credit to the firefighting team at Toronto Pearson, the pilots [and] the aircraft manufacturer," said John Gradek, an operations and integrated aviation management professor at McGill University, during an interview with CBC Radio's Metro Morning on Tuesday. 

Flight attendants and flight crews, as well as airport emergency workers and responders, "mounted a textbook response" to the crash, Flint said on Tuesday. They reached the site in minutes and quickly evacuated passengers, she said. 

Take a look at Pearson airport's state-of-the-art fire trucks
What caused the crash? 
Officials have not pinpointed what caused the crash, saying it is under investigation.

The Transportation Safety Board of Canada said in a YouTube update on Tuesday that officials have retrieved the cockpit voice recorder and flight data recorder of the Delta Air Lines plane, and sent them to the lab for further analysis.

Ken Webster, an investigator with the TSB, said in a YouTube update on Tuesday that more than 20 investigators were still at the site of the crash, examining the wreckage and runway, conducting interviews and collecting data to determine the cause and contributing factors of the accident.